### Introduction ... Who Are You?

**Why are you taking this course? Be honest.**

I have a new theory that a person should take a course not because of the name or the curriculum, but rather because of the teachers who teach it. This means that I'd rather take a course with teachers that I like regardless of the actual content of the course. I think that if I was given a free block 6 and I had no idea what the course was I'd still want to take a course with the two of you. To be honest, I barely know what sustainability is even after taking the course once and that doesn't matter because I know I'll enjoy the teachers who are teaching it. 

**What is it that rings your bell? What would you like to learn more about?**

I really like learning about a whole lot of things, this includes STEM information and debate information. I also love seeing the intersection between the two of these and I think sustainability gives a really good lens on how these two meet. I really want to do a double major in Computer Science and Philosophy in college and I think this course and this idea of sustaining is a good combination of these two. We get to look towards science through the lens of ethics and doing things in a sustainable manner which is something I want to do when I go into the computer science and engineering industry. 

**Conversely, what makes you nervous or gives you pause about the course or the subject matter?**

This has actually become a weird question for me now because I've been making a concerted effort to view conventionally negative things in a positive manner. I've realized that I hate doing things that aren't challenging and a lot of the things that I do in my life are solely because they're challenging. While I used to be super scared of humanities courses and the like, I have now started to enjoy them both because I find meaning in the struggle and I just see the value and enjoyment in them more. This means that I don't really have a good answer to this one, because I feel like I am able to find meaning and enjoyment in learning all things regardless of if they are enjoyable in the short term or not. 

**If you took this course in a previous trimester, what part of the subject matter do you expect to bring forward? What are your expectations? Any hesitations? Be honest.**

I think that if the course was done in person I would be able to bring a lot more of the subject matter forward. Considering I don't fully understand how the course is going to be run, I feel ill equipped to list the specific tech knowledge or soft skills that I will carry over from my last time taking the course. I think that I will have better informed opinions to bring to discussions that are a bit more holistic than they would have been prior to me taking the course last time. I also think that I am a better designer and take more things into account than before my completing both sustainability and innovations 10. I think that the course has also given me a good perspective on how to look at thinks more holistically. I'm expecting to engage in very fun discussions that stimulate me and force me to use more exploratory thinking rather than "debating" thinking. 

**Finally, is there something going on in your world that may impact your performance this trimester that you feel we should know about? Discretion is absolutely respected.**

I'm currently going to work during this break and I'm making an effort to be much more healthy in both eating and working out because I'm not getting out of the house during the school day. I don't see these two impacting my work, but they are happening in the time that I conventionally do homework, but I don't expect any negatives coming out of this. 