### Thursday Exit Ticket

Describe one rule for what makes a good relationship and why you chose that rule.  Please complete your exit ticket and upload by the end of class.



I think tactful honesty is a really good rule to have in a relationship. Often times people see problems in relationships as two people fighting against each other, i.e. "you didn't tell the truth", but at the risk of sounding cliche, I'd argue that it's the two people in the relationship working to solve the problem together. I've found in my past relationships, specifically romantic ones, that open and honest communication is very helpful and solves the risk of having problems fester and leading to larger issues. While honesty seems to be plagued with the risk of being too blunt, I think there is a time and a place to say everything and if one can gauge the situation properly then they can be tactfully honest. To use a metaphor, I think this can be likened to partial differential equations in math. (My brother actually gave me this metaphor when I was having relationship problems this past summer) In these problems if one has all of the information they are able to make a guess of the potential solutions to the equation(there is no way to actually find the solution), but given anything less than all of the information one can't even make an educated guess and I think this applies to relationships perfectly. If you have all the information from the other person, transmitted by honest communication, then you can make an educated guess or think up potential solutions. But with potential dishonesty or deceit, you're left with absolutely nothing. 