### Monday Exit Ticket

Hatch your plan of attack for the next phase of your CRP!  Tell me, in a few sentences, how you're planning to budget your time to do the following: 

1. Prep for your deliberative conference

   I will plan a group work call with Alden and Ella to discuss our opinions. On top of this I'm planning on starting to revise each of my precedents and main case as a means to refresh myself on all of the content. I also plan to chat with my parents about it and try and discuss it with people who will listen. 

   In terms of time line, I plan on reading through each of my essays and starting to revise them this weekend. 

2. Write your opinion section

   Wow, isn't this a lot of work. Based on my reflection from last night, I'm going to try and chunk this out. It's due in about 3 weeks and I think I can approach it as having three main sections. The first is going to be the intro/thesis paragraph which will probably take the most forethought. The next section is going to be the body paragraphs, where the brunt of the work is going to be in rereading my precedents and going through the wikipedia pages over and over again. Lastly, I'll have the conclusion to do, discussing the ramifications of my opinion and the like. Normally I like to chop my essays up a little bit, so I plan on starting with my body paragraphs, moving on to the intro, and then finishing up with how this opinion will have an impact on the world. 

   I want to devote a week to each of these pieces, but I want to wait on putting pen to paper until after the conference. This means that I'll have less time than that to do all of the writing. I plan on finishing the body paragraphs by 3/29. I'll finish the intro and conclusion by 4/3 and 4/5 will be a relaxed Sunday of sipping tea and editing the opinion with an early bedtime.  

3. Revise the whole shebang

   As I said earlier, I hope to be thinking about revising my precedents as I'm moving through writing my opinion and narrowly tailoring them to the argument I'm trying to make (pun very much intended). I already feel like I have a good understanding of the argument I'm trying to make in my opinion and how I will alter my case overview both based on that and in accordance with Lisa's feedback. 

   It's very challenging to put deadlines on this considering it's so far away, but I guess that's the tough part of this project. I'm planning on having comments for revisions on all of my case documents by the time spring break rolls around (4/6). I will then go and edit all of my overview the weekend after break, because what is break if not to take a break. This means I should have the case overview revisions complete by 4/19. The week of 4/20 is going to be revising the opinion which will be due on 4/26. Then I will take the week of 4/28 will be full revising and making it a cohesive document which will be due on 5/3. Then I'll be relaxing by the time that 5/6 rolls around.  

   

Upload by the end of class today!