### Literary Trial Closing Statement

Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, may it please the court. I want to start by reiterating an idea that my colleague brought up: while DW was an amazing leader on paper, when it came down to it, his inability to properly manage the crew led to the eventual demise of a large majority of them. Insofar as DW assumed leadership of the mission, he also took on the lion-share of responsibility. It is not just that the members of the crew acted poorly while DW was in charge, rather he helped, facilitated, and almost encouraged risky behavior and decision making that would come back to haunt everyone. Time and time again, DW proved himself an incompetent leader when it mattered most, unable to think through things and take control of his group. 

Today, the prosecution brought before you three witnesses who if not willingly, inadvertently incriminated DW, the man who had been been a father figure or friend to them. While he may have been a kind soul to the members of his crew, DW lacked foresight and an ability to corral his group in dire circumstances. I want to walk through certain examples both the prosecution and defense witnesses brought up, which each in their own right are a manifestation of DW's poor leadership and incriminating evidence. 

1. DW's overt reliance on faith led to him straying from rational decision making into the land of nebulous, obscure faith based decisions. As Anne brought up, DW was a man of great piety and looked towards God when he didn't understand the situation whether it was referencing 'turtles on fenceposts' or saying 'deus vult'. It is abundantly clear the as the mission on Rakhat progresses, the flaws in DW's leadership become apparent. While DW was a good leader on paper and started of the journey on the Stella Marris be reprimanding Emilio for poor behavior, as the trip **I'm having trouble right here, I don't have a clear understanding of how Anne's line of questioning is helping us here** 
2. DW also failed to find a safe way to initiate contact with the Runa, which ultimately led to the downfall of their group. As Emilio pointed out, DW didn't take any precautionary measures when they first met the Runa, and they ended up being very thankful it was the Runa they met first instead of the much more violent Janata. When look towards good leaders, it is usually apparent that they take small, calm, measured steps that each individually could little to no negative repercussions. DW decidedly didn't do this when he chose to take these 'leaps of faith' and making massive decisions instead of breaking these down into much smaller steps. While the defense may make the argument that ________, both the text and the witnesses clearly point to _______ actually being the case. The defense's inability to beat back this clear, cogent argument leaves DW as the person who was solely responsible. DW's failure to initiate contact with the Runa until they had the nuanced, intricate understanding of their culture that Emilio later gained, was an example of poor leadership, this same leadership also manifested itself in the deciision to create a farm. 
3. Rather than assembling a crew based on competence or expertise, DW decided to pick the members purely based on intuition and ease. As both Anne and Sofia talk about during questioning, DW didn't go searching for the best people to lead the mission to Rakhat. Rather, he chose what was easy and decided to argue that he was prioritizing the existing relationships between the group. Don't get me wrong, I fully understand that it is important to have emotional cohesion among a group that is going to have to spend so long together, but being a highly technical expert is not mutually exclusive with also having high emotional intelligence. As Anne discussed, DW said himself that he chose the group because it was easy and they were all there instead of going to search for a better one. While the defense may make the argument that ________, both the text and the witnesses clearly point to _______ actually being the case. Right from the outset of the mission, it was already flawed because DW had poorly chosen members of the crew who weren't as competent in their respective fields as they could have been, we see this manifesting in many situations, including with the lander. 
4. Throughout the events that transpired, DW asked the crew to look towards 'turtles on fenceposts' instead of making logical, evidence based decision making. While I completely understand that this was a faith based mission and it was paramount for worship to play some role, it is clear that DW let this get out of hand. Each of the people on the mission had a job, specifically with DW being a leader and Emilio being a man closer to God than anyone else on the trip. It was DW's job to check Emilio's faith-based decision making and make sure there was logic backing up what happened. But as Emilio talked about during questioning, it was DW that succumbed to faith-based decision making and let Emilio do the same thing. While the defense may make the argument that ________, both the text and the witnesses clearly point to _______ actually being the case. It was DW's job to check his own faith and not let it run rampant and cloud his decisions, but instead he let this happen and discouraged logic while encouraging the viewing of 'turtles on fence posts'. 
5. DW failed to make any contingency plans when Sofia and Marc went to get extra supplies from where they landed. While a hallmark of a good leader is to be able to plan for seemingly impossible outcomes and make sure the crew knows what to do given any scenario, DW massively fails to do this. Based on what Sofia said, it is clear that DW cut corners and didn't inform them of any contingency plans regarding what could go wrong. Rather than choosing to understand nothing every goes as planned (especially when your on a foreign planet dealing with aliens), DW chooses otherwise and assumes everything would go perfectly. While the defense may make the argument that ________, both the text and the witnesses clearly point to _______ actually being the case. Moreover, DW also chose Sofia, someone who is technically incompetent at the tasks that needed to be done on Rakhat. So if you don't buy that it is DW's fault for failing to make contingency plans, which even DW incriminates himself for, it still stands that he could have picked someone that would be able to think through the situation when their leader failed them. 
6. For failing to warn the group about his premonitions of Supaari and the Jana’ata being dangerous. **Y'all I have absolutely no fucking clue as to what is going on with this one. We don't have any questions for Emilio AFAIK. Can someone explain this to me and we can work on both the questions and this part of the closing statement.** 
7. Lastly, another manifestation of DW's leadership was his judgment being clouded by his saint worship of Emilio. As Anne brought up, DW thought very highly of Emilio and referred to Emilio as a Saint in conversations with her. These special feelings about Emilio were manifested when they were first making contact with the Runa, when DW essentially renounced leadership and let Emilio do whatever he wanted. While the defense may make the argument that ________, both the text and the witnesses clearly point to _______ actually being the case. It is abundantly clear that it was DW's repsonbiility to foster Emilio's relationship with God, something he had done his whole life, instead of letting it run rampant and unbounded, which he let happen on Rakhat when he was needed the most. 

All the facts in this trial point to one thing, DW is responsible for the downfall of the Jesuit mission on Rakhat and the Runa uprising. Each of these examples are just manifestations of DW's poor leadership skills, which was what ultimately destroyed them. Thus, we hold that DW is guilty for collapsing to poor leadership when the group needed him the most. 