### The Road pages 1-130 

"Eyes collared in cups of grime and deeply sunk. Like an animal inside a skull looking out the eyeholes. He wore a beard that had been cut square across the bottom with shears and he had a tattoo of a bird on his neck done by someone with an ill formed notion of their appearance. He was lean, wiry, rachitic. Dressed in a pair of filthy blue coveralls and a black billcap with the logo of some vanished enterprise..." (63)

McCarthy's use of description instills the reader with a sense of fear and discomfort due to the unknown. The author writes how the man looked like, "an animal inside a skull looking out the eyeholes" as if there was another layer of this person behind the external wall of "grime". The image that is created serves to remind the reader that there is still a lot unknown about a person, regardless of how they look. This image combined with words such as "filthy" and "wiry" gives the reader a visceral discomfort and fear in their stomach. Moreover, McCarthy informs the audience that this man has an "ill formed notion of their appearance," reminding the reader that no matter what he projects, there is something different underneath. From my perspective, the internal layer that McCarthy was trying to show to the reader was one that is even scarier. The image of someone who doesn't care about their appearance, using the dirtiness as a mask for whatever malice and morality truly lies within the man. This idea is upheld a couple of pages later when this man attempts to kill a young child. 



From the eyes of the boy and his father, what's the difference between good people and bad people? Are they born this way, or can they transition from one to the other whenever they please?   

