### Fanon "Racism and Culture"

"This object man, without means of existing, without a *raison d'etre* is broken in the very depth of his substance. The desire to live, to continue, becomes more and more indecisive, more and more phantom-like." (35)



Fanon uses a powerful vocabulary and diction images to make the case that subjected peoples end up considering suicide. He writes about a man who has been subjugated and broken down to the point where this person has become an "object". Fanon argues that without a "raison d'etre", also known as one's most essential reason for existence, a person becomes fundamentally "broken". He furthers this point by creating diction image of one delving to the "depths" of their substance searching for a reason to live, and not finding anything. Fanon then uses purposeful repetition of "more and more", twice, to stress the abject monotony that is living in a society that doesn't care about parts of its population. The writer then conjures up the image of one's reason and drive to live almost disappearing in a "phantom-like" manner. This can be connected to the multitude of adolescents around the world who are struggling with the likes of depression and suicidal ideation, an issue close to my heart. Similarly to what Fanon describes, kids are being forced to toil away at tasks for institutions they don't care about, forcing any "*raison d'etre*" they might have to slowly slip away until it becomes a ghost. Although Fanon is discussing racism as it pertains to society in his essay, the way he describes the oppressed being beaten down by a power-rich minority is very similar to the way society is structured today. Thus, Fanon's thoughts on suicidal ideation as it pertains to subjugation can be extrapolated and applied to society today, giving another explanation as to why mental health is such a pressing issue.



How does Fanon morally justify turning the oppressors into oppressed through violent revolution, if the same issues and institutions of imperialism will once again be seen?