### Malcom X The Ballot or the Bullet

"The political philosophy of Black Nationalism only means that black men should control the politics and the politicians in his own community. The time when white people can come in our community and get us to vote for them so they can be our political leaders and tell us what to do and what not do do is long gone." (1)



In this speech Malcom X echoes some of the views of Stokely Carmichael, a black political activist. Often times, people will cite Malcolm X and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as two opposite ends of the spectrum that is  the black nationalist movement because of their views on violence, with X being pro-violence and King being vehemently against it. Some then add to this and bring up the difference that stems from religion as a secondary argument. I think that this quote highlights another key difference, that often goes unnoticed, between MLK and Malcolm X. MLK believed that white and black people could be integrated and live together due to their fundamental foundation as human. While X, on the other hand, argued that white and black people should be separate due to an inability to coexist that he argued for in his speech. An example of this is seen in the quote where X capitalizes "Black" showing his belief that they are a separate group. From this I drew a connection to Plessy v Ferguson and the 'separate but equal' doctrine. Malcolm X argues that the only way for black people to be equal is if they live in their own communities, with black neighbors, black store owners, and black politicians telling them what to do. Interestingly enough, this case was seen as incredibly racist, having countless people working towards overturning that precedent. Which finally happened in 1954 with the Brown v Board of education case, which was much more in line with King's ideology. This was seen as a turning point in American history, signaling the beginning of the end of racism, the opposite of what X would argue. I personally believe that there has to be a middle ground in between the two, ("it's not a black and white issue"-I really wanted to write this) something in between complete integration and cultural homogenization and the violent segregation that was happening at the time. I think if two groups completely integrate their cultures will be lost as they are morphed into one, which is a bad thing. But I also stand vehemently against the idea of segregation and believe that the US is currently headed in the right direction. We still have a lot of race based issues weaved into society in an almost artisanal way, as Fanon talked about, but the US is headed into the right direction. I believe that the two ideas of cultural uniqueness and equality can co-exist to create a better society.  



Why did Malcolm X not believe the ideology of Cheif Justice Warren that two separate communities inadvertently lead to inequality and inferiority? 