### The Black Panther Party Platform

Context: This 10 point program is a document contain the guidelines for the Black Panthers, referred to as a combination of a Bill of Rights and a deceleration of independence. They were a political party founded in 1966. Each of the 10 points was meant to be put in place and practiced by the members every day. Later dwindled due to public vilification and other issues such as murder. Was extremely controversial and influential. 



"We believe that Black people should not be forced to fight in the military service to defend a racist government that does not protect us. We will not fight and kill other people of color in the world who, like black people, are being victimized by the white racist government of America. We will protect ourselves from the force and violence of the racist police and the racist military, by whatever means necessary" (Point 6) 



The 10 point program was built as a short list of demands for the US government, with obvious consequences if the points weren't followed. The consequence that is outlined in this point was protecting themselves "by whatever means necessary". The key diction in this quote is the usage of the word "protect". Although the Black Panthers are more aggressive than most black nationalist/black power groups they make it clear that they are a strictly defensive group. The Black Panthers are working towards the protection of their community against a racist government that "does not protect" them, this is seen as breaking the social contract. They are a group contained within a 'racist' nation that has laws and practices that are racist. The breaking of the social contract and implementation of unjust laws gives us a direct link to Thoreau. This is a textbook case of civil disobedience. They see a law that doesn't fall in line with their morality and exercise their freedom to opt out of a government program. This is a very different kind of civil disobedience than what MLK described. While MLK hopes to evoke sympathy and empathy with non-violent marches and protests, the Black Panthers are working towards keeping every individual safe through self defense. I felt like MLK was putting black people in the line of fire with the intent of improving the lives of other black people, which I agree is very effective. But the Black Panthers believe that each black life deserves defense. This reminded me of an argument brought up very often in debate: utilitarianism vs deontology, which is very in line with the conversations we've been having on morality. While neither of these frameworks are one size fits all for every situation with one being fundamentally superior, I find it fascinating that MLK and the Black Panthers slot so well onto either side of this debate. The debate between these two frameworks is something I'm going to be doing in some of my debate rounds throughout the season. It is interesting to see the connection between historical eras, contemporary works, and my own day to day life. 



What level of civil disobedience is justified? At what point does it go from the obligation to one's self and community to breaking the social contract? 