### Brown v Board of Education 1954 

"Today it[education] is a principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values, in preparing him for later professional training, and in helping him to adjust normally to his environment. In these days, it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of education" 



While I do believe that the value of education is a combination of tangible benefits and an intangible development of character, this quote jumped out to me as negative, rather than positive. The writer here describes education as the, "principal instrument in awakening the child", with the implication that children are naturally blind to the world. Meaning that they are, quite ironically, unable to participate in the American Dream because they are sleeping. The writer argues that education is a tool to help a child "adjust normally" to their environment, but fails to give a concrete definition as to what 'normally' means, thus leaving it up to the interpretation of the reader. For me, normally implies a certain amount of conformity and a general shepherding into a certain direction. This direction of growth is easily curated by the education of a child, it begs the question of who, and with what motive, is the child being educated by. The writer talks about "cultural values" and education's goal to instill those within children. These are the values that are passed down from generation to generation and become the very basis that society thinks on. Education is essentially the only way we have to pass down knowledge, discoveries, and traditions to future generations. While seemingly helpful in the pursuit of collective learning, it is quite easy to brainwash children by giving them a certain education, an idea that has been explored in countless dystopian novels. The writer even admits that for those who stray from these cultural values it is "doubtful that ...[they]may be reasonably expected to succeed". Thus, it is insinuated that straying from the path of conformity and not immediately adopting someone else's values, will lead to a person becoming a failure in life. 



What are the values of American culture that we hope are passed down to each following generation?  