### The Road 176-235

"There are other good guys. You said so.

Yes.

So where are they?

They're hiding.

Who are they hiding from?

From each other." (McCarthy 184)



McCarthy uses purposeful dialogue to both develop the characters and help reveal the plot. This quote is a conversation between the boy and his father, starting with the boy. The phrase "you said so" implies that the child defers to the father's knowledge on matters to do with good/bad and morality. The child is then curious as to why the pair haven't seen any of the so called "good guys" and the father responds by saying that they are hiding from each other. Throughout the book the boy wonders about good guys and often ponders as to why the pair has yet to come across any. This quote specifically reminded me of the prisoners dilemma that we discussed in relation to the cold war. To summarize, it's a situation where two rational, logical actors make decisions that lead to an illogical, suboptimal outcome, usually because they were both looking out for their own self interests. A good example is in the cold war, where both the US and USSR decided to build missiles, seeing as that was the logical conclusion for each side, but the conflict would have been better resolved if neither of them had built any missiles in the first place. McCarthy presents us with a prime example of this. From the perspective of another good guy, this good guy doesn't know whether or not the person they would engage with is a bad guy, and thus chooses to keep to himself. Thus, even if two good guys are about to run into each other they would both try and evade, even though they could help each other if they properly communicated. I found this really heartbreaking, because there are people in the story who want to help each other, but can't because they're too afraid of each other. 



Why does the boy want to meet these so called "good guys"? What will he do with them if they ever do meet other "good" people? 



