### My Family's Slave

Preface: This was an intensely sad reading, wow 

"She'd heard that relatives back home who hadn't received the promised support were wondering what happened to her. She was ashamed to return. She had no contacts in America, and no facility for getting around. Phones puzzled her. Mechanical things - ATMS, intercoms, vending machines, anything with a keyboard - made her panic. Fast-talking people left her speechless, and her own broken English did the same to them. She couldn't make an appointment, arrange a trip, fill out a form, or order a meal without help." (17-18)



This quote displays that the cost of Lola's assimilation into the Tizon's family went further than just verbal abuse and neglect. As she was gone for longer and longer, the burden of her enslavement grew. Back at home, there were relatives depending on her for money, and those same people were "wondering what happened to her". It is clear that she internalized a large amount of guilt to the point where, "She was ashamed to return" home.  She felt as if she couldn't face her family given how she had "let" them "down", thus breaking the "promise" she had given to her family. While she was separated from her home and culture, she is also burdened with a lack of ability to assimilate into American culture. She was unable to use the "mechanical things" and electronics that are ubiquitous in America. Moreover, Lola was unable to speak proper English or execute day to day tasks in society without outside help. This contrast really shows that Lola was dependent on the people who forced her assimilation into American society, but was unable to actually participate in it without the family. She is trapped in America by both financial and emotional barriers, unable to go home, just like the vast number of people of color who tried to assimilate into the colonial culture with the hopes of a better life. This issue of assimilation is also brought up in Fanon's work, where the subjugated peoples attempt to assimilate into the culture of their oppressors, but are never able to properly do so. (Thinking about the melting pot conversation I had with Lisa and how the new metaphor has become the idea of a salad)



Is there a case to be made for the melting pot? Is the cultural homogeneity and almost necessary assimilation it causes too much? Does the salad metaphor fix for this? 