### Nixon Silent Majority Speech

Context: A few months after Nixon has been elected. He inherited the war from LBJ and is now forced to deal with the mess



"Let historians not record that when America was the most powerful nation in the world we passed on the other side of the road and allows the last hopes for peace and freedom of millions of people to be suffocated by the forces of totalitarianism."



Throughout the speech, Nixon references the US government's moral obligation to help people around the world and their obligation to be more transparent with the people. Nixon talks about how we must not "pass" people who are being "suffocated by the forces of totalitarianism". He uses powerful language to evoke the image of one passing by a man being suffocated without doing anything about it. Nixon discusses how it's America's obligation as the "most powerful nation in the world" to help fight for the "peace and freedom of millions of people". Rather than focusing on the base morality of the action, Nixon puts it in the perspective of historians looking back on the past and judging the morality of the nation. This leads me to believe that Nixon prioritizes people's views on America's morality more than taking the proper course of action. Rather than choosing to make a moral decision for the sake of doing so, throughout the speech Nixon talks about how the US has to be an example and has to stay credible. Thus, I don't think Nixon is doing with the goal of acting morally, instead he's doing it to make viewers think that America is acting morally.



What would the philosophers that we've read this fall say about the morality of this action? Specifically Thoreau?  (Lisa, I kind of stole your question)