### The Road 235-End

"You tried to kill us,

I'm starving, man. You'd have done the save.

You took everything.

Come on, man. I'll die"(257)



This quote from Cormac McCarthy hits at the crux of the essential theme for this book: is morality subjective. This conversation starts with The Man accusing a stranger of trying to steal all of their food. The stranger retorts by saying that the Man and the Boy would have done the same thing, when in fact they wouldn't. Throughout the novel there are examples of the pair making decisions that, while moral, negatively impact their chances at surviving. Which leads to the question of whether or not it's okay to abandon one's morals in favor of surviving. McCarthy's usage of the fire metaphor suggests that the Boy carries within himself a moral purity that he can't abandon, which his father remind him off when they part ways. It is left up to the reader's interpretation as to whether or not being moral versus being immoral is strictly better in this world, because McCarthy doesn't show who came out on top. Personally, I think there is something to be said for the intrinsic pleasure that following one's morals brings about, and on the other side of the spectrum, the intrinsic pain that comes from straying away from one's morals. Thus, I truly believe that acting within one's values inherently cultivates pleasure, regardless of the consequences of the outcome. (I would connect this to my last QRQ and say that deontology>utilitarianism/consequentialism but I don't have enough space and I already did one main idea)



What does McCarthy hope to acheive when he transitions from more image-based diction comprised of simple words to when he starts using thesaurus words at the end?  