### RDV: "What a Waste" My Lai

"Although the military law is quite clear, during wartime there are pressures to not follow it. Some will not report crimes for fear of being called troublemakers or having their promotions held up. Some officers are reluctant to investigate or punish possible crimes for fear the publicity would make their units look bad, affect their careers, or lessen public support of the war effort." (257)



This quotes exposes yet another broken system inside of the American government. The fact that nobody wants to take responsibility or actually follow through on the laws that they are supposed to obey is a glaring fault of the military system. No singular person wants to sacrifice themselves for the greater good of the system and the morals it was trying to uphold. Moreover, it is significantly worse that this happens "during wartime" considering that this is the time where it is most paramount to uphold these standards. This reminds me off sprint time at the startup I work at. During down time employees work to meticulously create and follow the guidelines that are going to be best for the company as a whole. But when sprint time comes around people are often too quick to cut corners and not follow the documentation, resulting in unforeseen problems. It is pretty easy to draw that parallel that during crunch time it is easy to disregard rules/guidelines, but that is when they are the most needed.



Were the American people aware that this was a proxy war for communism or did they truly believe the US's goal was to secure peace? 