### Between the World and Me 5-71

"The point of the language of 'intention' and 'personal responsibility' is broad exoneration. Mistakes were made. Bodies were broken. People were enslaved. We meant well. We tried our best. 'Good intention' is a hall pass through history, a sleeping pill that ensures the Dream." (33)



Coates uses purposeful language and metaphor to convey the way American people absolve themselves of blame as it relates to racial discrimination. Coates' uses of shorter sentences in the middle of this quote conveys an almost apathetic feeling to the reader. Small, chopped up thoughts that conflate the deeper meaning behind them to create a surface level understanding that doesn't seem to bad. The author writes about how American's use language, and by extension thought, to clear themselves of any fault. He writes that the fact that white people make the argument if they "tried" their "best" they shouldn't be at fault. He follows talking about slavery by white people's counter of "we meant well" to truly describe the apathy of white people by juxtaposing slavery and some people trying their best and happening to fail. He then moves on to say that it is argued that "good intention" gives one a "hall pass through history", harkening back to his talking about school. This image that Coates conjures shows that if one can provide evidence they were trying, they are essentially handed a ticked to do whatever they may please. He then creates another image of "good intention" being a "sleeping pill" that ensures the  "[American] Dream." As long white people pave their way with good intentions, they are able to convince themselves they don't need to pay any reparations or fix the bad behavior they have done and continue to do. Thus, subsumed within American white culture is a feeling of not being responsible for poor actions that had good intent.



What does Coates propose that white people do to fix this situation?

How does Coates feel that black people should act within this paradigm to "win the game" that they are playing? 