### Brown v Board of Education 1955 (2.0)

"Full implementation of these constitutional principles may require solution of varied local school problems. School authorities have the primary responsibility for elucidating, assessing, and solving these problems; courts will have to consider whether the action of school authorities constitutes good faith implementation of the governing constitutional principles. Because of their proximity to local conditions and the possible need for further hearings, the courts which originally heard these cases can best perform this judicial appraisal."



The *Brown v Board of Education* 1955 decision was a turning point for racism in America enacted by a largely liberal council, but this quote reveals an attitude in the American judicial system that I don't agree with. While the opinion of the supreme court is quite clear, one of anti-segregation, it feels like a very hands off approach. The writer discusses how full implementation "may" require a solution, with the responsibility delegated to the "school authorities" and allowing for the local courts to decide what "constitutes good faith implementation". The idea of "governing constitutional principles" that set boundaries for the whole country seems good on the surface. But the supreme court is not foolish and understands that by delegating these tasks to lower courts it is sometimes delegating to systems and communities vehemently against the original, 1954, Brown v Board of Education decision. The writer argues that these lower courts have greater "proximity to local conditions". These local conditions are constituted by differing feelings around slavery, segregation, and individualized freedom. The wary diction usage and wording of this quote implies that the supreme court is well aware of this, and is tacitly enabling local dissent. To me, this seems like a major red flag. Either in the way the executive branch is set up to enforce these laws or the choice of the supreme court to kick it back to the lower courts. Regardless of where the flaw lies, this seems like a pretty gaping hole in this decision, yet again. 



Where is the line drawn for federal interference within local jurisdictions as too intrusive and unconstitutional against local freedom?  