### A Letter from Birmingham Jail 

"We should never forget that everything Adolf Hitler did in Germany was 'legal' and everything the Hungarian freedom fighters did in Hungary was 'illegal.' It was 'illegal' to aid and comfort a Jew in Hitler's Germany. Even so, I am sure that, had I lived in Germany at the time, I would have aided and comforted my Jewish brothers. If today I lived in a communist country where certain principles dear to the Christian faith are suppressed, I would openly advocate disobeying that country's antireligous laws." (4)



I believe that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was so powerful, as both a writer and speaker, due to his ability to draw on real events and real people. I think that most of the philosophers and thinkers that we have read, like Emerson, Thoreau, Edwards, and Baldwin, have lacked basis or tangible examples, rather choosing to write in intangible, and nebulous ways. In contrast to this, MLK uses examples of both immoral and moral actions in history to prove the point that certain actions are morally unjustifiable. For instance, while Hitler was committing an immoral act of genocide, MLK brings up the example of the morality contained in helping a Jew who was suffering. Although the reader may not necessarily agree with Dr. King, through the use of concrete examples and good analogies, King is able to help people explore their own views on the same subject. Later in the paragraph when King uses the then-contemporary example of "openly" disobeying a communist or totalitarian regime, he draws upon the real-world examples of Nazis who rebelled due to their feelings towards the morality of Hitler's actions. This shows what my perception of King's stance on morality to be: there is an objective right and wrong, which people need to both be aware of and act on. Its clear King doesn't think morality should differ based on cultures or governments, based on his examples of Germany, Hungary, and a communist country. While his values are rooted in Christianity seeing as he discusses, "certain principles dear to the Christian Faith", he does believe that morality transcends religion as he talks about helping his "Jewish brothers." Thus, in King's paradigm, everyone is a "brother" in arms regardless of culture and religion, with morality that comes from within.



Where does King think that immorality originates from? How do we work to fix this?

