### Between the World and Me 73-152

"But the price of error is higher for you than it is for your countrymen, and so that America might justify itself, the story of a black body's destruction must always begin with his or her error, real or imagined..." (Coates 96)



Coates uses purposeful word choice to paint a picture showing the difference in the way people of color are treated in contemporary America. Coates uses the word "error" twice in this quote to show the way mistakes on the part of people of color are treated. He later goes on to write about how everyone is human and it is unfair to expect a certain subset of society to be completely error-less, and at some point or another everyone is going to make a mistake. The main idea to draw from this is that people of color, specifically black people, are treated differently for making the same mistake as white people in America. This quote, along with the whole book, is very similar to "The Talk" that parents of color have with their children; this book is essentially Coates's "Talk" with his son. "The Talk" is a conversation in which the parents, with their hearts breaking, tell their children that for the rest of their lives they are going to play by a different set of rules, be judged by a different set of standards, and be held under direct scrutiny. To the child it makes no sense that compared to the kid that they sit next to in math class, play ball with at recess, and share food with at lunch, the kid of color will never be the judged the same way. This is similar to a conversation I've had with my parents, and it went down in a pretty similar way. Although my family is not black, as is quite apparent, the xenophobia that is rife in America causes a white person to take one look at a brown man with a beard and immediately call him a terrorist, something that has happened to me before. My mom talked about making sure to not drive too late at night, to always be on your best behavior, etc. etc. This book embodies Coates's version of "The Talk" to his black son who is going to be judged differently his whole life, and have to live up to those standards and still risk not making it. 



Does Coates think there is a "generic" or broad solution to racial inequality or does he feel it best for each person of color to fight their own independent battle for their liberation while playing under the rules of someone else? Why? 

