### Deceleration of Independence EQ

Question: How is this document similar to King's "Letter from a Birmingham Jail"?



Both King's *Letter from a Birmingham Jail* and *The Declaration of Independence* write about morally repugnant acts that discriminate based on either race or country, because they are fed up of politely asking and want change to come sooner rather than later. *The Declaration of Independence* was a document written by American patriots in 1776 that outlined the colonists' grievances with the British crown and also included their pronouncement of independence. After listing the injustices committed by their so-claimed tyrannical overlords the patriots wrote, "In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress in the most humble terms; our repeated petitions have been answered only by repeated injury." (The Declaration of Independence 3) The word 'petition' is used twice, displaying that this call for equality has manifested often in a 'humble' manner so that the King might be receptive. Not only that, the word 'repeated' is used twice to show that the patriots have tried over and over again to explain their request. Both the themes of oppression and repetitive asking are similar between the two documents. In King's letter he preempts the counter argument from White moderates saying why now, with a simple argument that the civil rights movement has been trying to secure freedom for much longer than that. In the same vein the 'wait' section of King's letter is very similar to this quote, where the patriots have been told no or later. Secondly, both these documents paint a picture of oppression that needs to be stopped through the gaining of independence. While King wrote a letter begging the White moderates and trying to mobilize more people to his cause, this Deceleration was more of a be all end all. The patriots were fed up of kindly asking, so the decided to take, something King would've most likely been opposed to. 

