### Madison's 10th Federalist Paper EQ

Question: How does Madison believe that the effects of factions can be controlled?  How does he believe that a tyranny of the majority can be avoided?



Madison beleives factions can be controlled by oppression, mismanaged government that allows for the violation of rights of its citizens, a lack of shared passion within the majority, or a lack of opporunity for the majority to exercise their goals. Madison believes that solving the first three is nigh impossible while not become a tyrannical government, but believes a disconnect can be created between shared passion within the majority and opportunity to act on it through the creation of representative government. James Madison was a lawyer, statesment, diplomat, and founding father. He would become the fourth president of the United States. The Federalist Papers were a set of essays initated by Alexander Hamilton that supported the ratification of the Constituion. This specific essay, number 10, wrote about the advantages of a representative government. When discussing the need to put a barrier between the ideals of the majority and their ability to do it, Madison wrote, "If the impulse and opportunity be suffered to coincide, we well know that neither moral nor religous motives can be relied on as an adequate control." (Madison 3) 'Impulse' is considered to be something uncontrollable that can only be taken advantage of if the correct 'opportunity' is put into place. Both 'moral' and 'religious motives' are seen as the be all end all, and if those cease to lack power than everything is lost. Thus, Madison writes about his belief that representative government will create disconnect between the wants of the majorities and their ability to do this. Madison discusses the major flaws of a one to one govermental system, where a single person represents themselves, and writes that this system is doomed to failure from the very beggining. This government is also subject to an inability to expand, considering everyone needs to represent themselves. Thus, Madison argues that representation concentrates power to create this disconnect and facilitate a larger bredth of diverse opinions for the majority to hold. 

