### Lathe of Heaven 41-111 EQ

Question: How do you know when to impose your will or go with the flow?



The Western ideology answers this question by arguing that one should impose their will when they have the ability to help others, so the people around this person lead better lives and so the actor can take credit for their work. During the beggining and middle of Le Guin's narrative, the doctor, Haber, was working on specifying what George Orr, the protagonist, should dream about. Haber was using Orr's subconcsious ability to create reality from dreams as a means to making mass change around the world. Orr begins to argue with Haber about the morality of doing this and Haber argues by saying, "'But in fact isn't that man's purpose on earth - to do things, change things, run things, make a better world?'" (Le Guin 82) Haber's usage of the word purpose implies both a moral obligation and an inherent necessity to do these things. Not only is it man's duty to do these things, it is also 'man's purpose', the reason for creation. Haber desperately wants to 'change' things, rather than letting them be, in order to 'make a better world'. This shows the dichotomy in ideology that Le Guin is trying to bring out with the contrast of Haber and Orr. Haber, on the one hand, wants to make the world in his image and claim credit for it, while Orr, on the other hand, wants to go with the flow and accept the natural ordering of the universe. Haber wanting to play God highlights the individualistic nature of Western philosophy, that one has to have an impact on the world and leave a legacy. There really is only one reason for Haber to do this, so he can feel better about himself in his own image and pretent like he helped the entire human race. 