### EQ Lathe of Heaven 151-End 

Question: How do you know when to impose your will or go with the flow?



According to Orr, the philosophy of Deontology dictates whether or not one is allowed to impose their will in a given situation, but Haber looks towards a different body of thought.  Toward the end of the narrative, Orr is questioning his relationship with different aliens and humans that were imagined in his own image. George realizes most of the 'animals' he's created reality to reality have been working with him, but Haber is an exception. Arguing with himself, Orr thinks, "...he sees the world only as a means to his end. It does not make any difference if the end is good; means are all we've got..." (Le Guin 156) Orr uses both the words 'means' and 'end' twice in this quote. The phrase 'It does not make any difference is the end is good' is uniquely deontological. Deontology is the philosophy that outlines the moral imperative and believes that every action taken to achieve a goal must be able to justify itself in isolation. Orr's epiphany that the end is irrelevant if one uses immoral means displays his adherence to this philosophy. Haber, conversely subscribes to the ideals of utilitarianism, where pleasure is maximized across the greatest number of people. This is evidenced by the doctor's want to help everyone in the world, regardless of the cost to a few. While both of the characters truly believe in their philosophies, both ideologies have their flaws and those become evident when the characters go head to head. On Orr's side of the spectrum he becomes complacent and deems inaction as a moral behavior, while Haber is willing to sacrifice thousands upon thousands of lives if it is helping a larger group. 



Note: I really wanted to use two quotes and properly develop the analysis on the Haber evidence like you were showing us in class. I just felt I'd stick with the assignment and then workshop the quote from Haber in when I write the essay. Let me know if the lack of quote took the paragraph the wrong direction. 

