### Hakluyt EQ

Question: What is Hakluyt’s main argument for colonizing in North America?



Hakluyt's main argument for colonizing America is the benefits of the economic prosperity that such a move would bring about. Hakluyt was an English writer and priest, who spent most of his literary career writing works to promote English colonization of America. In an essay *On the value of Colonies to England* Hakluyt laid out the prerequisites and action items needed for successful colonization of America. In this piece he writes, "It is probable that if the whole state be engaged in these adventures it will be not a hard matter when apparent growth of profit is laid to persuade every country...to build barks and ships...and to maintain them...when gentlemen's youngest sons and other such men of quality maybe employed." (Hakluyt 2-3) The phrase 'apparent growth of profit' shows the the author sees this as an immediate effect of colonization. The sentence is structured to argue that if America is colonizes the resultant profits will 'persuade' people to 'build barks and ships' and give up their 'youngest sons' to be 'employed'. Not only does this point to the economic growth that Hakluyt is hoping for, later in the paper he writes that part of the money gained from the expedition should be given to His Majesty. Thus displaying his confidence in the fact that the adventure will in fact create profit for the crown. A key distinction that the reader has to discern from Hakluyt, is that colonization is, in the authors eyes, a far better alternative to outright seizure. His argument is that if a place were to be fully controlled they would no longer produce to their maximum, but colonization lets the economy flourish. Thus he advocates for colonization on the basis that it is the most lucrative course of action to be taken in America. 

