### Lathe of Heaven 1-40 EQ

Question: When is it better to impose your will or go with the flow?



It is better to choose imposing will over going with the flow if going with the flow negatively impact other people's lives. In Le Guin's *The Lathe of Haven* George Orr, the main character, has dreams that alter the reality he wakes up to. George is scared of these dreams for fear that it will hurt the people around him in an uncontrollable fashion. This fear inadvertently takes him to a dream specialist's office to help George fix it. When talking with the doctor the protagonist asserts, "'Who am I to meddle with the way things go? And it's my unconscious mind that changes things, without any intelligent control.''" (Le Guin 14) The word 'meddle' in this quote has the connotation of dealing with someone else's business in an unsavory manner that oversteps boundaries. The author uses 'unconscious' to show that he is not choosing to 'meddle' in other people's affairs, rather his brain is choosing to do it while George is asleep. This diction works to paint the picture of a main who is 'unconsciously' 'meddling' in other people's lives, and doesn't want to let that keep happening. Before Orr wanted to stop the dreams he arrived at a crossroads, where he could have chosen to go with the flow and keep on impacting other's lives in unpredictable ways, or he could try and impose his will in order to suppress his dreams. Orr chose to impose his will and attempt to curtail his dreams in order to make sure he didn't hurt others, something that happened and could continue to happen if he chose to go with the flow. 