### Resolutions of the Stamp Act 1765 EQ

Question: How would you describe the colonist’s “tone”?  What’s the purpose of employing that tone?



Quote: "...it is the indispensable duty of these colonies, to the best of sovereigns, to the mother country, and to themselves, to endeavor by a loyal and dutiful address to his Majesty, and humble applications to both Houses of Parliament, to procure the repeal of the Act for granting and applying certain stamp duties" (Resolutions of the Stamp Act 2)



Claim: At first the colonist's tone seems to be humble, kind, and reverent, but as the passage goes on it becomes clear that the tone is not nice, rather it is forceful, presumptive, and somewhat arrogant. The Stamp Act of 1765 was an Act passed by the British Parliament which taxed all American colonists for every single piece of paper they used. The tax was put in place because the Americans refused to pay for the armed forces that the Crown supplied them with in order to win battles in America. In response, the now-infuriated American colonists who, at best, had a havering allegiance to the crown wrote this document for His Majesty to read. The document starts using words such as 'humble' to make the King believe that the colonists still have respect for him and the power he wields. Later in the document the colonists write, "...it is the indispensable duty of these colonies, to the best of sovereigns, to the mother country, and to themselves, to endeavor by a loyal and dutiful address to his Majesty, and humble applications to both Houses of Parliament, to procure the repeal of the Act for granting and applying certain stamp duties..." (Resolutions of the Stamp Act 2) The word 'duty' juxtaposed with 'the mother country' and 'themselves' evokes an image of the colonists doing not just what is best for themselves, but also what is best for their original country; this is especially clear by the fact that 'mother country' is placed before 'themselves' in the list. The word 'duty' is used again coupled with 'loyal' to make the King believe that the colonists still have allegiance to him. Moreover, the usage of 'humble' displays reverence and the top down structure that the King is trying to enforce. Although the diction choice paints a picture of 'humble' colonists hoping to do right by their king, the actual content of the paper is a deceleration that they won't be doing something, rather than asking for permission to not do something. This document shows the then growing sentiment among colonist of hatred towards the King, specifically with regards to taxation without representation, along with the American's want for more freedom and independence from Britain. 