### Thomas Paine's Common sense EQ

Question: How does Paine appeal to his audience and what is his main argument?



Thomas Paine argues for the separation of America from England, as done by the colonists, so the American colonists can be free from the clouded judgment and ulterior motives of England. He appeals to the audience by arguing that he "tells it like it is" and using simpler, more emotional rhetoric. Paine was a political activist who was born in England and migrated to America. His pamphlet *Common sense* was read by almost every single American rebel, which was a piece meant to summarize the American demand for freedom. In this paper he argues that he is, "...not induced by motives of pride, party, or resentment to espouse the doctrine of separation and independence; I am clearly, positively, and conscientiously persuaded that it is the true interest of the continent to be so..." (Paine 6) The phrase 'true interest' is meant to contrast with the picture he's painted of the British Crown's ulterior motives in America. Paine also argues that he is not swayed by 'pride, part, or resentment', which is used as a way to disarm the reader and lull them into a sense of security. Often times when people are being manipulative or appealing to someone they talk about what they are doing as a means to make the victim or audience feel more comfortable and safe. This is coupled with Paine specifically talking to a more lay audience here, hoping to just lay out the facts without his judgment being clouded by anyone else's motives. He uses this deceit to further argue that it is time for American's to take their matters into their own hands, seeing as no one else has done it for them. It seems that most authors and activists who call for freedom make an emotional case that it has been too long and no one else will do it for them; Paine uses this formula down to the T. Paine properly disarms the people using purposeful diction to make sure the reader doesn't question his credibility, in order to whip the American rebels up into a frenzy to take control of their destiny and start the inevitable fight against the self-interested British Crown. 