### Sparrow 105-165 QRQ

"He wondered then if Jesus expected gratitude as Lazarus emerged, stinking from the crypt. Maybe Lazarus was a disappointment to everyone, too." (Russell 154)



In multiple parts of the book Emilio Sandoz compares himself with the biblical character of Lazarus, who was well known for being resurrected by Jesus. A key part of Lazarus's story was that both before and after his death and subsequent resurrection, he did work for Jesus never losing sight of that. Earlier in the book when Emilio compares himself to Lazarus, he is insinuating that he died on a part of his journey to Rakhat and in a miraculous chain of events he was brought back to Earth and born anew. Sandoz challenges this so called miracle by wondering if Lazarus 'was a disappointment' in the way Emilio felt he was. When comparing the two story arcs of Lazarus and Sandoz the one key difference is after his death Lazarus kept on working, while Sandoz has been falling apart into a spiral of depression. It is pretty clear that Emilio is very upset that he was kept alive, leading him to ponder whether, 'Jesus expected gratitude as Lazarus emerged' suggesting that he himself had no thankfulness and wished he had died on that mission. Emilio's relationship with death and self-harm is a key theme in the book, while he has yet to commit suicide, he wallows in depression as he lets his body deteriorate more and more. Rather than actually wanting to kill himself, I think the fact that he hasn't shows that his self harm is a cry for help that his Latino pride won't let him verbalize, because often times self harm is used as an outside signifier for emotional pain.  



Did Lazarus go searching for God, or find Him when he died? If so, how did this impact Lazarus's life and can this show us something that we might happen to Emilio?

What is DW's ugliness supposed to represent or symbolize? What, as the reader, are we supposed to take away from his character, other than that he's a large, loud Texan who also happens to be a priest?

Is the way Felipe Rayes acts towards Sandoz all part of the game that Giulani is playing, or did the Father General miscalculate? 

