### Constitution 3-7 and Bill of Rights EQ

What ready-made conflicts can you see today between stategovernments and the federal government?  While we tend to think of liberty as the freedom “to,” meaning to act as we wish, how the Bill of Rights more about the freedom “from?”



States rights are a large point of contention in America, ranging from recreational drug use to marriage to education. Based on the structure of the federal republic, the interaction between the states and the federal government is one that is not fully outlined leading to a lot of confusion. The constitution enumerates the powers of the federal government, and writes that, "The United States shall guarantee to every state...A republican Form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion...against domestic violence." Thus, the US federal government has jurisdiction over the states to ensure state governments, national security, and inter-state security. Other parts of the constitution give the federal government over inter-state commerce, inter-state crimes, and extradition. But instead of enumerating the powers of the state, the 10th amendment in the Bill of Rights writes that, "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." Thus, everything not outlined in the constitution, became a state power. Working in the negative meant that the constitution didn't prescribe what freedoms the state had, rather that they had the freedom from an overarching federal government. While the papers seem to say that, many believe that the federal government is allowed to make laws over things such as health care and education. This massive gray area between where the federal powers end and where the state powers begin have led to many of the issues that have been fought between federal and state governments. For instance while abortion is federally allowed under Roe v Wade, some states are moving to outlaw it in their jurisdiction. Commonly cited examples include education, healthcare, and same-sex marriage. The vagueness of the separation of power means that there's often conflicts between the states and the federal government, with the states asking for more power, while the federal government claims they have jurisdiction to make the laws they do. 



