### Sparrow 165-243 QRQ

Quote: "You are actually in a more difficult situation than a priest or a nun is. Celibacy is not the same deprivation. It is an active choice, not simple the absence of opportunity...Priest differ in their ability to hold themselves to a vow." (Russell 185) 



Response: Emilio's relationship with celibacy is seems to be an extension of his interactions with God, and when one is doing well the other is doing well and vice versa. When giving sex advice to Jimmy Quinn, Sandoz explains the difference between been an involuntary celibate and voluntarily picking that way of life. Arguing the former is 'deprivation' and just not getting something one wants, while the latter is 'an active choice'. Throughout the story we see Sandoz's relationship to celibacy change as the story progresses, with him getting closer and closer to being both physically celibate and fully at peace with that decision. The key part of the quote is Emilio's stress on the fact that celibacy for priests is centered around the fact that they are given a choice to make, and have to continually answer yes to being celibate. Once the reader gets to the end, the biggest plot reveal ends up becoming Emilio Sandoz's involuntary violation of his celibacy at the hands of Hlavin Kitheri. While Sandoz thought there existed some power, presumably God, giving him the choice on whether or not to be celibate, there were actually creatures that God created which would take this choice away from him. The metaphor that Sandoz's relationship with celibacy is similar to his relationship to God continues to hold up; as he got closer and closer to become one with his celibacy he got closer to God. Yet, when he finally came face to face with God, God failed him and made him non-consensually give up his celibacy.  Sandoz's relationship with celibacy is a key part of the book to hone in on, and see how it shifts as his relationship with God does. 



Question: Does Sandoz ever recover to the point where he learns to trust God again? 

Does Sandoz start to take up the brother or father or peer role in Jimmy's life? Why? 

