### Sparrow 242-287 QRQ 



Quote: “He felt as though we were a prism, gathering up God’s love like white light and scattering it in all directions, and the sensation was nearly physical...soaking up the music and cadence…” (Russell 273)

Russell uses beautiful prose to paint an image in the reader's head of a man who has confirmed that God exists. Leading up to this quote, the Jesuit crew has just landed on Rakhat and has explored the village/dwellings of what seems to be an alien species. Soon the humans meet this species, the Runa, and this is during their first interaction. The diction of a ‘prism’ ‘scattering’ ‘white light’ is one that everyone can picture, and creates an image of a strong source of ‘light’ being dispersed everywhere for everyone to enjoy. Russell adds the component of ‘God’s love’ to highlight the importance of religion in this moment. Throughout Emilio’s life he has gone from city to city hanging out with kids and feeling “God” in the altruistic work he has done for children, and this is no different, other than the fact that is is on a planet 3 light years away from earth. Moreover, right before this passage Emilio refers to them all being ‘God’s children’ and recognizes the sheer beauty in harboring the faith that brought him here. This was my favorite quote when I first read through the book, just because of the sheer skill of the imagery but also because of what it represents. In Emilio’s journey to find God, this is the climax and when he feels closest to the heavenly being. Later in the book we learn that D.W., when seeing Emilio’s face that day, thought Sandoz had heard the voice of God in that moment. I also think the plot choice to include three suns is punctated in this moment, and leads me to believe that part of the reason to include three suns is to hit home on the prism metaphor. This is just an all around perfect piece of prose that paints a beautiful image in the reader's head, moves the plot and themes forward, and makes us fall in love even more with the character, just to be hurt when we’re snapped back to the reality of Naples every chapter. 

Question: Does Voelker harbor animosity toward Emilio because Voelker never met him before the trip and only sees him for the murder and prodisution, or are there other reasons? Why? 