### Sparrow 287-332 QRQ

Quote: "

'And sometimes they just get better,' Marc said quietly.

'*Deus vult*' she[Anne] replied ironically." (Russell 322)



Throughout *The Sparrow* Russell uses the Latin phrase 'deus vult' as a means to accentuate the theme of faith and highlight the differences in faith between characters. The phrase directly translates to 'God's will' or sometimes is taken to mean 'if God wills it'. Closer to the beginning of the novel, when the crew is getting ready to go on the mission, deus vult is used a lot by Emilio, a very devout priest, who believes it was in fact by God's will that the mission kept trudging on until they finally got to the space 'potato'. When Emilio uses the phrase, he is stressing the fact that their is a higher power who knows better than the humans on Earth, and if that God wants something to be done that all humans should go with the flow. Here in the story Marc is having a quick chat with Anne the morning after DW has fallen sick. Earlier, when Pace had died, Anne had half screamed half explained the double standard that religious people exhibit when they thank God for a patient surviving but blame the doctor if the patient doesn't pull through. Anne sarcastically saying deus vult again hearkens back to Pace's death, and shows her gripe with the same double standard. What Anne hopes to demonstrate through highlighting this double standard is that their exist two possibilities if such tragedies happen; either there is no God at all watching above us or the God above us is not benevolent or kind, rather is cruel and merciless. The religious folk on the crew struggle with this concept, and it comes to a head at the end of the book when Emilio is talking about the violation of his celibacy. A conversation then ensues between Candotti, Reyes, and Giuliani where they quote Matthew 10:29 and wrestle with the idea that God might not be truly altruistic. (I plan to write a lot about this on the QRQ that contains 480. I talked with Brian about this, but when we see Emilio's explanation of the violation of his celibacy he goes onto say that either God doesn't exist and all his life's work was for not or God is a cruel being who he never should have worshiped in the first place)



What is Sofia's take on the whole deus vult situation? What would the consensus be in the Jewish and the Sephardic Jewish community? 

Is there any parallel between the Janata 3rds not being allowed to have kids and the human priests' vows of celibacy? 

