### Alien Enemies and Sedition Acts EQ

Question: Do you see these laws as potentially dangerous?  Why or why not?



The Alien Enemies Act and the Alien Enemies and Sedition Acts both seem to be good for the people they affect, but have the potential to be dangerous. Both of these acts were passed in 1798 while John Adams was president. The first act is essentially an act regarding prisoners of war, addressed as 'alien enemies' in this paper and states that during a time of war people from other nations 'alien enemies' can be taken prisoner or removed from the US. The paper goes on to say that if people are not found to be guilt of any crimes that endanger public safety they, "...shall be allowed, for the recovery, disposal, and removal of their goods and effects, and for their departure..." (1) The speed of this process is mandated in a treat with the hostile nation or is decided by the president. Throughout the act the word 'removal' is used, which means that instead of torturing or imprisoning foreigners, this act promulgates that these people must be safely returned to where they came from. The potential abuse of power comes from two main places. The first one is that the US governmental system gets to decide whether or not the foreigner is guilty, meaning regardless of what the 'alien' did the US can still prosecute them and in that case is allowed to imprison them. The second is that in non-treaty situations the president is given discretion over the timeliness of an 'alien enemies' return, which can be quite easily abused. Thus, some ways of enforcing this act would be good and others could be very harmful. The second act, The Alien and Sedition Acts, was an act to punish conspiracy against or defamation of the United States government. One interpretation of this act, the ability to stop violent insurrection or blatantly false defamation of the government seems like a very positive thing. On the flip side of this, a different interpretation of the act has an almost totalitarian feel to it by giving the government the ability to crack down on anyone who speaks ill of them. The one thing that makes this act somewhat better is the maximum fine and jail time one can get, which helps cap abuse of this power. While these laws both seem very good on the face of them, given the right circumstances of a power-hungry president or a dire situation these laws have the ability to be abused. If the opposite was not having either of these laws, I'm not sure that would be better considering this gives active jurisdiction to the government to do potentially horrible things. 



"That the expiration date of the act shall not prevent or defeat prosecution and punishment of any offense against the law, during the time it shall be in force" - I found this part of the reading absolutely hilarious. I'm pretty sure that someone had to learn the hard way to put this stipulation into law, meaning there exists a story of someone who did another illegal thing and got off without jail time or a fine because the law expired.  

