### Sparrow 332-394 QRQ

Quote: "'Have you ever wondered about the story of Cain, Ed? He made his sacrifice in good faith. Why did God refuse it?'" (Russell 341)



Russell unveils more of Emilio's character and relationship with God through writing about his reflections on biblical characters. Throughout the book we see him talk about the different biblical stories, some about the seemingly morally profligate Mary Magdalene and others about the resurrected Lazarus, both people Emilio seems himself in. Here, in a conversation with Ed Behr about the blame God should take form bad things Emilio asks Ed this question about Cain. Here is yet another well studied biblical character that Emilio  believes properly portrays his issues. Similarly to Cain, Emilio feels that he mad sacrifice in good faith to God. Not only did Emilio travel around the world doing altruistic behavior after being thrown into a new country every three years, but he ventured to another planet in order to learn and then help, all in the name of God. Yet both Cain and Emilio were given nothing for the sacrifices they made for God; Cain had his brother's sacrifice picked over his, in Emilio's case, instead of getting rewarded, he instead got maimed and broken. After committing murder, Cain was forced to wander the Earth in eternity. While Emilio doesn't align with being a murderer, he feels forced to live on Earth knowing that there is a God that both rejected his sacrifice and willingly did this to him. 



Does Emilio use comparison to biblical characters as a means to gain empathy/sympathy points from the group, or is he genuinely interested in the theological implications of these characters?

If humans were raised without the concept of greed or in a capitlistic system, would we stil be greedy due to basic nature?

Why do the Jesuits feel a settler colonial need to fix whatever system the Rakhat species have, purely on the account that the Jesuits feel its immoral in the Jesuit framework?