### Bowen 3-53 EQ (Convention)

Question: Do the framers seem to be angling for a confederal government of states or a unitary government of a nation?  Can they create both?



Response: While almost no one was in favor of a purely national government, most of the framers were arguing for an increase in power to the federal government in some shape or form. In Pennsylvania in 1787 there took place a convention among political leaders, lawyers, and others with the hopes of improving the Articles of Confederation that at the time governed the United States. Many political leaders were unhappy with the current system, specifically because of  Shay's rebellion and intra-state trade conflicts. A large majority of Americans felt allegiance not to the country, but rather to the state they resided in. Thus making a national government that interacted with the individual an impossibility. This brought up the idea of a federal government which Madison argued, "A federal government...operates on states, a national government operates directly on individuals." (Bowen 43)  While many were confused about Madison's definition of a federal government, very few objected. Content with the compromise that they wouldn't be governed by an overarching national government so soon after they had gained independence form a monarch, the framers moved on to arguing arguing the specific state representation numbers in this federal system. The framers were not happy to yield all state powers to the larger federal government, and instead wanted the two to work in tandem. Thus a new idea of federalism was born in which the federal government interacted with not only the states, but also directly with the individual. This ended up taking place in the three-pronged federal republic that America has today, which concurrently works with the states both taking and yielding power where it was deemed necessary. 

Sidenote: I felt that more of this was spent doing definitions rather than explaining higher level ideas, but i also feel that's what the prompt was asking for. Let me know if this was too granular and I missed bigger ideas. Also, whenever we write these I'm plagued with the issue of wanting to write a lot more on tangentially related topics, but I'm working on this by cutting out parts that I feel don't directly answer the prompt. So many of these questions could turn into really nice essays or even books. 

