### The Sparrow 1-105

"The Torah taught, Choose life. And so, rather than die of pride, Sofia Mendes sold what she had to sell, and she survived." (Russell 75)



Sofia Mendes, along with others in this story, challenge the notion that accepting death can be good and instead believe one must stay alive at all costs. Sofia draws this finding from her faith, and decides that even prositution is okay to suffer through as long as one is living, beleiving that she is only sacrificing her pride. It's abundandly clear that this expereince in Sofia's life had tremendous impact on her perspective on the world and the way she lived her life. She became a removed person, not wanting any emotional connection in her business-centered world, or as Anne would say an, "emotional anorexic" (96). This is a very similar situation to what is happening to Emilio in this book, where he seemingly chooses the other direction. Out of reasons unknown to us, possible shame and anger, Emilio purposefully lets his health go into a decline because he sees dying as a superior option to living in his current state with the memories he had. Instead of reaching to his faith in order to 'choose life' Father Giulani is the one to explain to Emilio that he must work to stay alive and improve his physical and mental condition, regardless of the cruelties Emilio faced and the PTSD he has that's completely destroyed his life. This is also similar to The Road, where a key theme is the fight between some kind of morality and staying alive. While in The Road the duo choose to risk staying alive on the basis of moral action, Sofia has absolutely no qualms, regardless of the impact it had on her life. 



Is Sephardic judaism different than 'regular' judaism? Does this impact Sofia's life in a menginagful way? 

Why hasn't Emilio committed suicide? Why does he prefer this slow, painful, tedious detoriation to quickly ending his life? Does he hope to show others the pain that he is in without complaining about it (something he decidedly doesn't do)?  