### Preamble + Article 1 and 2 EQ

Question: What are the 3 most important checks and balances between the legislative and executive branches and how do they actually work?



The three most important checks and balances between the legislative and executive branches are impeachment, veto power, and appointment of officers of the United States. Checks and balances as a concept are stipulations that make sure power doesn't get too concentrated in the hands of specific indivudals or groups. Because of the three pronged government structure, the constitutional framers saw it best to make sure the governmental branches had checks and balances to make sure the other branches were staying in line. The largest check and balance that the legislative branch has over the executive branch is the power of impeachment. The House has the sole power over impeachment, meaning they can deem whether or not the president was guilty of certain things. In contemporary Ameria it is seen that the House has agreed that President Trump is guilty of two impeachable offences. The Senate has the sole power to try all impeachments, and actually render a judgement on whether or not he is guilty (The supreme court is also present, but that's not a part of today's paragraph). On the topic of bill creation, which resides in the House and Senate, the constitution outlines that, "Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States: If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it..." (4) While both the Senate and House have to approve the creation of a new law, the president has power to veto the law if he chooses to. In order to make sure that the president can't just sit in office for 4 years and not let the congress do anything, if a bill is vetoed by the president it will be sent back to the senate wherein a 2/3s majority will mean the passing of the bill, regardless of what the president thinks. Finally, the legislative branch has power over the executive branch in the creation of treaties, appointing of ambassodors and public minsiters, Judges of the supreme court, and all other officers that don't have specified appointmnet processes. While the president has the power to appoint all of these people, it is only with the consent of the senate that he can actually do it; this is extremely important, especially for the supreme court justice appointment, considering these two branches control who interprets the law. Without these checks and balances there would be large imbalances of power between the branches of government, thus instead of foolishly thinking they could control these imbalances, they let the branches do it themselves. 



I know we're not supposed to ask questinos but, did the Iroquois consitution have any form of checks and balances? 