### Marbury v. Maddison EQ

**Quick Summary:** Marbury v Madison was a seemingly tame case, but ended up being the most important case in constitutional law in US history. The case came from a rather funny, petty incident where on the last day of his presidential term Adams named 42 justices of the peace and 16 new circuit court justices, with the paperwork being completed by the end of his term, but did not deliver this commission. When Thomas Jefferson assumed office the next day, he said that it would not deliver the commission because it would be politically detrimental to have justices that were appointed by the opposite party.  William Marbury was a justice who was supposed to receive an appointment by Adams’ commision, but Jefferson’s block meant that he didn’t. Marbury then requested a writ of mandamus (an order from the SCOTUS to officers, lower courts, etc.) from the federal Supreme Court to order James Maddison, Jefferson’s Secretary of State to give him his rightful appointment. Although the case is pretty simple, the implications of what happened surrounding this had a massive effect on the rest of American history,

**Sachin’s note:** I loved this reading so much. I did a bunch of reading on wikipedia and it’s literally insane how much impact this had on the rest of American jurisprudence and general history. I talked a lot about it with my Dad and texted a few people about it. I also think it’s quite hilarious that the biggest case in US history had its legacy formed accidentally because of the mandamus violation, not because of what the actual case was about. The other fact I found pretty interesting is that the SCOTUS waited 60 years to actually exercise their newfound judicial powers during the Dred Scott case in 1857, which was also a major case in US history that played such a pivotal role in the civil war. Moreover, I think it’s quite fascinating that the contemporary image of the supreme court isn’t even what is enumerated in the constitution, rather it is the inadvertent product of Marbury v Madison. 
I could honestly go on and on about this case for quite a long while, I mean many people have written books about it, and I actually might want to read one of them. But the EQ is the central part of the assignment so here you go:

**Question:** **How specifically was the Judiciary Act of 1789 unconstitutional?  How does the case demonstrate the power of judicial review?**
The Judiciary Act of 1789 was unconstitutional because it overstepped the powers of congress in assuming that the legislative branch had the ability to change the Supreme Court’s jurisdiction that was outlined in article III of the constitution. The Judiciary Act of 1789 was an act by the US congress which gave the SCOTUS original jurisdiction over cases, which superseded the appellate jurisdiction that was enumerated in the constitution; the act gave the SCOTUS a lot more power and let people bring their cases directly to the highest court in the land, rather than having to go through local courts. Marbury v Madison triggered discussion about this because James Marbury applied for a writ of mandamus directly to the SCOTUS which was allowed in their newfound jurisdiction under the Judiciary Act of 1789, but would have otherwise not been allowed under the appellate jurisdiction that the constitution awards them. In his opinion, Chief Justice Marshall wrote on the topic of constitutionally enumerated jurisdiction, “If it[the constitution] had been intended to leave it[SCOTUS jurisdiction] in the discretion of the Legislature to apportion the judicial power between the Supreme and inferior courts according to the will of that body, this section is mere surplusage and is entirely without meaning.” (2 Marshall, Majority Opinion) Marshall uses a fair bit of sarcasm here, saying that if the conflicting law were true, a piece of the constitution was written merely as a ‘surplusage’. He also writes about the ‘intentions’ of the framers and that it wasn’t to leave the ‘apportioning’ of judicial power to the ‘discretion’ of the legislature, rather the government should follow the constitution. Thus, as the interpreters of the law the judicial branch found it necessary for them to strike down a law that was in violation of the constitution. In terms of the specific case at hand, they agreed that Maddison was at fault here, but couldn’t do anything about it because they had just destroyed the original jurisdiction they had that would have allowed them to issue the writ of mandamus to force Maddison into giving Marbury the justice-ship. Outside of the case at hand, the effect of this decision was wide and far-reaching. Now that the SCOTUS was solely an appellate court, that was tasked with reviewing legal infractions of laws that were potentially unconstitutional, they’re future had been changed forever. They became a body where cases that go against the grain of the most important document in America percolate to in order to get a resolution and set precedent for future cases. 