### Monroe Doctrine

Question: Historians have suggested three primary goals for the Monroe Doctrine.  

1. Protection for Latin America from Europe

2. Self-defense of the United States

3. Justification for American quests for empire

Based on your reading, which do you think is the best interpretation, and why?



I think that the  goal for the Monroe Doctrine was to protect the Western Hemisphere from European power in order to set up the US as a regional hegemon. The Monroe Doctrine was the ideology put forth in James Monroe's seventh annual speech to congress. The doctrine outlined America's foreign policy strategy moving forward. Monroe states that the era of European soft and hard influence over the new world was over and that, "...we[US] should consider and attempt on their part[Europe] to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere, as dangerous to our peace and safety." (1) Monroe argues that any European influence in the Western Hemisphere would be seen as an act that is 'dangerous' to the the 'peace and safety' of Americans, regardless of whether or not it was an attack on America or not. He uses the phrase 'their system' when talking about the colonial system that Europe has imposed on countries around the world throughout modern history. Wary of more colonial power in the Americas, Monroe makes it clear that European powers should not come back. While this document can be construed to say that Monroe was just trying to help out Latin America, I think there was an ulterior motive on the US's part, to set itself up as a regional hegemon. Up until now European powers have acted as the policemen of the world, something that the US wants to change. Monroe argues that the US will leave powers in Europe alone as long as the European powers leave the US free to do whatever the US pleases in the Americas. This gives the US space to become the preponderant power and policeman of the new world, and gives rise to the global dominance that it later amasses. 