### Sparrow 396-445 QRQ

Quote: "He was so worn out, but the sobbing lasted a long time. Finally he lay down again, his back to her, hands over his face. 'God', she heard shim whisper over and over, 'God'" (Russell 445)



Mary Doria Russell further explicates Emilio Sandoz's journey to both find God and find meaning in all the work that he has done. This quote is right after Emilio and Sophia are forced to bury the remains of DW and Anne, Emilio's functionally adoptive mom and dad. After spending the large majority of his energy burying them, Emilio still 'sobs' with 'hands over his face' while he comes to terms with the fact that he will never see the people who raised him again. When Emilio says 'God' in this quote, considering the context, it stands out to me as if he is questioning why God would do this to him. This is the first part in the novel where Emilio begins to question the actions of God. In the case of Alan's death, Emilio simply chalked it up to God willing it by saying 'deus vult' and tried to move on with his life. But in the case of the two people closest to him in the world, Emilio begins to question the God that would allow this to happen. Emilio eventually pushes through this pain and continues to search for God, but that is with some amount of doubt in the back of his mind. In Naples, Emilio wrestles with the double-bind of worshiping a merciless God or having spent his life doing work for a God that doesn't even exist. This spark of questioning God, catches fire throughout his time on Rakhat and manifests as a bonfire when he finally reaches his breaking point as Kitheri violates him. 



How do different branches of Christianity interpret the Mathew sparrow passage differently?

How did Sophia putting Emilio's hand on her pregnant belly make her feel?

Are the VaRakhati capable of proper empathy, if so what makes the humans unique? Are the different species just different possible outcomes? 