### Jackson's Bank Address EQ

Question: Why was the United States Bank closed?  Are you persuaded by Jackson’s answer?  Why or why not?



Claim: Andrew Jackson claimed that he shut down the United States bank on the grounds that it was both unconstitutional and dangerous. The first national bank was created by George Washington and Alexander Hamilton as a central repository for federal funds. After the first bank's charter expired, a second bank was created which was managed by a board of directors with ties to the industry. Jackson then opposed the recreation of the bank after the charter expired with the hopes that he could destroy the federal bank. Andrew Jackson argues that the current bank has a monopoly over the sector and their lack of congressional oversight could spell trouble; he implies that the bank is ripe for foreign takeover. While he believes that the bank is unjust and an example of upper-class business men oppressing lower-class individuals, his main argument is that this institution is unconstitutional. He writes, "Each public officer, who takes an oath to support the Constitution, swears that he will support it as he understands it, and not as it is understood by others."(2) Jackson's argument is that every public officer should do their job as they 'understand' or interpret the Constitution, not the way that 'others', such as the SCOTUS, 'understand' it. Premising his argument on this view of the Constitution, Jackson's strict interpretation of the document means that, from Jackson's perspective, the lack of direct enumeration of a federal bank in the Constitution means that having one is unconstitutional. 

I find this argument not compelling in the slightest for two main reasons, he completely misconstrues how the Constitution works and expects others to believe it and he very clearly has ulterior motives for doing this. On the first point, Jackson argues that every person in the government should get to interpret the Constitution in their own way and fulfill their duties based on that. This isn't true, considering the SCOTUS sets the precedent for constitutional interpretation. Moreover the bank is actually in line with the constitution based on the elastic clause, which Jackson just seems to glaze over. On the second point, it should be noted that the federal bank denied Andrew Jackson his request for funding for Western expansion. Not only does he have reason to hate the bank and try and shut them down, the reasoning that he mobilizes is both flawed and not true. Thus, his argument is not compelling.   

