### TEWWG Chapters 1-2 QRQ

**For this QRQ, I specifically want you to find a quote that you think explores the essential question, "What makes a good relationship?"**  So the *response* part of the QRQ should respond to the question "how does this quote explore our essential question?"



Quote: "'...Every tear you drop squeezes a coup uh blood outa mah heart. Ah got tuh try and do for you befo' mah head is cold.'" (Hurston 15)



I think this quote helps us delve into the idea of mutual care for one another in a relationship, and how that can manifest in different ways. In this quote, Janie's grandmother is berating her for kissing a boy that the grandmother has deemed unworthy for her. While people are quick to say that undying love is a hallmark of a good relationship, this quote nuances that idea a little bit. Because the grandmother is in a position of power,  the manifestation of her undying love is overtly controlling of Janie and could cause unintended harm. This is also seen in most parent-child relationships where the parent's best wishes and love for a child often result in stricter rules and angry chiding, exactly what is happening in the book. Thus, it seems fair to say that undying love makes a good relationship when executed properly in a healthy, mutually agreed upon way, but when the manifestation of the love becomes controlling it is bad. 



What is the difference between a good short term vs long term relationships? Do they have different things that make them good?

Are good relationships necessarily the only time of relationship one should want to have? Don't slightly abrasive and antagonizing relationships often teach people useful skills? 



