### EQ: Hinton Rowan Helper and "When Cotton Was King"

QUESTION:  What do you see as the biggest problem facing the US leading up to the Civil War?  Pull a quote from one of these pieces to illustrate.  As always, try to get beyond the obvious.



Quote: "production levels had never been higher, and despite occasional drops in price, cotton was proving a reliably stable profit engine. Indeed, slave-produced cotton had become a formidable political and still growing economic force" (Dattel 4)



Claim: The biggest problem facing the US leading up to the civil war was the South's greed for growth which resulted in economic dependency on the institution of slavery. While it is easy to say that the largest issue facing pre-war America was the divide between slave holding states and non slave holding states, this argument isn't going to the root cause of the issue. In a piece on the rise of cotton in the American South during the Antebellum, Gene Dattel writes that, "production levels had never been higher, and despite occasional drops in price, cotton was proving a reliably stable profit engine. Indeed, slave-produced cotton had become a formidable political and still growing economic force" (Dattel 4) The dependency on slavery to produce cotton is illustrated by the writer's explanation that the industry was "a reliably stable profit engine" that was both "politically formidable" and a "growing economic force" This language depicts a sector of the economy that can only be seen in a positive light, except for the fact that it is inherently intertwined with a morally repugnant institution. The article discusses the increased reliance on slavery that went hand in hand with the boom of the cotton industry. With this up-tick in the amount of slaves, the issues surrounding abolition went from a mere political debate to one that would shape the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of Americans; taking away slavery would lead to a pretty bad economic downturn, bordering on collapse, in the South. The situation is pretty similar to the fossil fuel predicament in the 21st century. Although the institution of oil is a booming economic product, the fact that it has been so thoroughly intertwined with production means that political moves and pledges can no longer stop a morally horrific institution from continuing on. 