### TEWWG 3-8 QRQ

Quote: "Matt realizes they have tricked him again and the laughter makes him mad and when he gets mad he stammers." (Hurston 52)



Zora Neale Hurston contrasts different stories in the book to give a nuanced explanation of what a good relationship is. Throughout the novel, a large part of the narrative if focused on the abuse that Janie faces and the different tactics her abusers use to metaphorically and literally beat her down. At this specific point in the novel, some of Matt's peers are playing a prank on him and he gets slightly upset when they laugh at him. Compared to the other insults in this book this one is relatively light and doesn't have any deeper meaning that will harm the friendship between the characters. Often times, people are able to make fun of or play jokes on those that are closest to them because there's a mutual understanding that no hard feelings will be there walking out of the situation. Comparatively, Janie wasn't close enough with Joe to the point where his snide remarks would be passed of as light-hearted humor. Moreover, the comments that Joe made about Janie were comments that could be construed as light-hearted. Thus, Hurston does an exemplary job of showing us what a bad relationship is and what a bad relationship is not by contrasting two seemingly similar remarks and showing the intricate differences and the implications those have on the status of the relationship. 



Why does Hurston spend so much time writing about the death of the mule? Is it to give Janie her first taste of death? To foreshadow the death of Joe Starks?

How much of the abuse in the relationships to be blamed on the individual character and how much should the system that produced these people be blamed? What about the system that made it so a grandmother has to abuse her child in order to make sure the child doesn't face something worse later on in life? 

