### Resistance to Civil Government 

Thoreau 

"If I devote myself to other pursuits...I must first see...that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders. I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too."



Thoreau focuses the majority of his time in this piece focusing on freedom. Considering he was a philosopher who lived his life while slavery was quite prevalent in America, his keen interest in freedom makes a lot of sense. Thoreau writes about how, in order to properly follow one's passion, that person must first make sure they are not impeding on anyone else's ability to do so. This lens is readily applicable to the modern world, especially with the example of abortion rights. While it is a woman's prerogative as to whether or not she herself should get an abortion(she may choose to, or not), it is not anyone else's time or place to tell her what to do. In the same way that Thoreau's philosophy was so easily applied to women's rights, his ideas are easily applied to the day to day decisions one makes. This is where I feel Thoreau differs from a lot of philosophers. Most philosophers talk about their vision for the perfect society, the ideal government in which everyone would be happy, or the ability to be moral when one aligns themselves with the nebulous divine. Thoreau, on the other hand, does a better job of appealing to the readers, and only asks for them to change themselves. He does talk about how government should function in an ideal world, but he presents they layman with tools to achieve this goal. Going into the next week of my life, with effort, I can be a moral man under Thoreau's framework, and that is my only job in working towards the perfect society.



How did more cynical people respond to the transcendentalist movement? Where they vehemently against it, dismiss as being preposterous, or simply ignore it? Did this movement pull others in the direction of it?

