### Good Country People

'...He was so simple...but I guess the world would be better off if we were all that simple'...Mrs. Freeman's gaze drove forward...'Some can't be that simple,' she said. 'I know I never could.'"(O'Connor)



The author uses dialogue and description to draw a parallel between the relationships of Hulga with Pointer and Mrs. Hopewell with Mrs. Freeman. In the quote, the author uses the world simple three times, thus attempting to contrast surface level thoughts with ideas that are more nuanced and complicated, the opposite of simple. Both Hopewell and her daughter, Hulga, are people who believe themselves to be intellectually superior to the world, often spouting whimsical cliches. On the other hand, Freeman and Pointer are both more multi-faceted than they let on, as evidenced throughout the reading. Finally, both Hopewell and Hulga believe that due to their superior nature, they can control those around them. It is shown that Hulga is dreadfully wrong and turns out to be the naive one. The ending of this story foreshadows that while Hopewell thinks she can control Freeman, she's in for a painful lesson. There is a hint of a lesson about not being able to trust anything other people say, similar to the foreign policy that we've been discussing in class. This quote and story accentuate people's ability to get so wrapped up in their own ideals and superiority, that they forget to remember that others are just as smart.



 What was the fake leg meant to symbolize?  