### Truman Doctrine

"To ensure the peaceful development of nations, free from coercion, the United States has taken a leading part in establishing the United Nations… We shall not realize our objectives, however, unless we are willing to help free peoples to maintain their free institutions and their national integrity against aggressive movements that seek to impose upon them totalitarian regimes. This is no more than frank recognition that totalitarian regimes imposed on free peoples, by direct or indirect aggression, undermine the foundations of international peace and hence the security of the United States." 



This quote has a lot of language that display some of the underlying motivations of the Truman Doctrine. The word free is used four times in just three sentences, when talking about coercion, people, and institution. Freedom is a word that is uniquely powerful in American vocabulary and history, something that Truman knows and uses as leverage. It is clear that Truman did indeed want to secure freedom and democracy for America, but he also had ulterior motives, similarly to many other politicians. Truman describes the United States as a big part of the United Nations and makes the US seem like protectors of "peaceful development" and "free people". But under this veneer, the Truman Doctrine indebted countries such as Turkey and Greece and put the US in a position within the United Nations. This inspired an image of the United States as a defender of democratic values and freedom. While Truman used political tactics of charismatic speaking, this does present a potential lacked the transparency that people in a democracy should receive.    



To what extent is the communist propaganda that painted the United States as manipulate actually valid? 