### Betty Friedman "The Feminine Mystique"

"'I feel empty somehow...incomplete.'...'I feel as if I don't exist.'...Sometimes she thought the problem was with her husband or her children, or that she really was to redecorate her house, or move to a better neighborhood, or have an affair, or another baby."



In this essay, Friedan writes about the grievances women faces in the mid 20th century, specifically zooming in on the dissatisfaction that women had with their lives and lack of careers. This essay was written after World War 2, and focused on how women were treated after all the post-war transitions. Women in America were feeling "incomplete" and as if they "don't exist", both in relation to their lack of career fulfillment. An interesting connection can be drawn to Gladwell's outliers where he discusses success and the satisfaction that follows. When writing about what a good career needs, Gladwell outlines three main pillars: autonomy, complexity, and relationship between effort and reward. Throughout Friedan's essay, it is made blatantly clear that American women in the 1950s had none of these three things, making it quite clear why they felt unsuccessful. They lacked any choice as to whether or not this is what they wanted to do, instead of doing complex jobs they were engaging in manual labor, and finally, they weren't seeing any outcome from the countless hours they put in. Friedan draws much-needed attention to the lack of job, and life, fulfillment that plagued American women post-world war 2.



What was the general consensus among mid-20th century American feminists on how to fix this glaring problem?