### Gardens of Democracy

"The economy, like a garden, is never perfectly in balance or stasis and is always both growing and shrinking. And, like an untended garden, an economy left entirely to itself tends towards unhealthy balances." (Page 5)



In this quote, the author paints a picture of a garden, and uses that image as a metaphor for the economy. This paper explores the dichotomy between viewing the world as linear machines and seeing it as asynchronous, intertwined gardens. The stark contrast between these two bodies of thought is shown in this quote; the writer hopes to show the necessity of constantly nurturing a tree, rather than making large changes or no changes at all. This harkens back to 10th grade English with Brian explaining the concept of *gutta cavat lapidem*, drop molds rock in Latin. The author proposes that consistent, small changes that guide the market in the correct direction are what need to be done. He then goes on to say that is is the government's obligation to do this bowling-ally bumper duty to nudge the economy where people want it to go. Instead of turning the economy upside down every time it fails, this paper proposes that we systematically prune our bonsai tree of a market to adapt and conform to change in the best way possible.



Are there any examples of people/communities in this world that successfully exercise this garden-brain plan? If so, where are they and how did they arrive at the conclusion that this is the best course of action? 